Added Ldap Authentication Documentation (#8804)
open-metadata/OpenMetadata: openmetadata-docs/content/deployment/security/ldap/index.md

---
title: Ldap Authentication
slug: /deployment/security/ldap
---

# Ldap Authentication

> OpenMetadata allows to use LDAP for validating email and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenMetadata allows using LDAP for validating email and password authentication.
```

Once setup successfully, the user should be able to sign in to OpenMetadata using the Ldap credentials.

# Setting up Ldap Authentication

> Below are the required steps to set up the Ldap Login:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the required steps to set up the LDAP Login:
```

```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: ${AUTHENTICATION_PROVIDER:-ldap}
  publicKeyUrls: ${AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS:-[http://localhost:8585/api/v1/config/jwks]}
  authority: ${AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORITY:-https://accounts.google.com}
  enableSelfSignup : ${AUTHENTICATION_ENABLE_SELF_SIGNUP:-false}
  ldapConfiguration:
    "host": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_HOST:-localhost}
    "port": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_PORT:-10636}
    "dnAdminPrincipal": ${AUTHENTICATION_LOOKUP_ADMIN_DN:-"cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com"}
    "dnAdminPassword": ${AUTHENTICATION_LOOKUP_ADMIN_PWD:-"secret"}
    "userBaseDN": ${AUTHENTICATION_USER_LOOKUP_BASEDN:-"ou=people,dc=example,dc=com"}
    "mailAttributeName": ${AUTHENTICATION_USER_MAIL_ATTR:-email}
    #optional
    "maxPoolSize": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_POOL_SIZE:-3}
    "sslEnabled": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_SSL_ENABLED:-true}
    "keyStorePath": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_KEYSTORE_PATH:-"/Users/mohityadav/sslTest/client/keystore.ks"}
    "keyStorePassword": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_KEYSTORE_PWD:-"secret"}
    "truststoreFormat": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_SSL_KEY_FORMAT:-"JKS"}
    "verifyCertificateHostname": ${AUTHENTICATION_LDAP_SSL_VERIFY_CERT_HOST:-"false"}
```

> For the Ldap auth we need to set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the LDAP auth we need to set:
```

OpenMetadata Specific Configuration :-
 
- `provider -> ldap`

- `publicKeyUrls -> {http|https}://{your_domain}:{port}}/api/v1/config/jwks`

- `authority -> {your_domain}`

- `enableSelfSignup -> This has to be false for Ldap.`

<Note>

> Mandatory Ldap Specific Configuration :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mandatory LDAP Specific Configuration:
```

- `host -> hostName for the Ldap Server (Ex - localhost)`

- `port -> port of the Ldap Server to connect to (Ex - 10636)`

- `dnAdminPrincipal -> This is the DN Admin Principal(Complete path Example :- cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com ) with a lookup access in the Directory`

- `dnAdminPassword -> Above Admin Principal Password`

- `userBaseDN -> User Base DN(Complete path Example :- ou=people,dc=example,dc=com)`

</Note>

> Please see the below image for sample Ldap Configuration in ApacheDS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see the below image for a sample LDAP Configuration in ApacheDS.
```

<Image src="/images/deployment/security/ldap/Ldap_ScreenShot1.png" alt="apache-ldap"/>

> Advanced Ldap Specific Configuration(Optional) :-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advanced LDAP Specific Configuration (Optional):
```

- `maxPoolSize -> Connection Pool Size to use to connect to LDAP Server.`

- `sslEnabled -> Set to true if the SSL is enable to connecto to LDAP Server.`

- `keyStorePath -> Path of Keystore in case the sslEnabled is set to true`

- `keyStorePassword -> Truststore Password`

- `truststoreFormat -> TrustStore Format (Example :- JKS)`

- `verifyCertificateHostname -> Controls using TrustAllSSLSocketVerifier vs HostNameSSLSocketVerifier. In case the certificate contains cn=hostname of the Ldap Server set it to true.`

### Authorizer Configuration

- This configuration controls the authorizer for OpenMetadata:

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  adminPrincipals: ${AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS:-[admin]}
  principalDomain: ${AUTHORIZER_PRINCIPAL_DOMAIN:-"openmetadata.org"}
```

> For the Ldap we need to set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For LDAP we need:
```

- `adminPrincipals -> This is the list of admin Principal for the OpenMetadata , if mail in ldap is example@openmetadata.org, then if we want this user to be admin in the OM, we should add 'example', in this list`

- `principalDomain -> Company Domain`

### Jwt Configuration

- Please note that the JWT Configuration is mandatory to work with Ldap Authentication.

```yaml
jwtTokenConfiguration:
rsapublicKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/public_key.der"}
rsaprivateKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/private_key.der"}
jwtissuer: ${JWT_ISSUER:-"open-metadata.org"}
keyId: ${JWT_KEY_ID:-"Gb389a-9f76-gdjs-a92j-0242bk94356"}
```

<Note>

> By Default the jwtTokenConfiguration is shipped with OM. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the `jwtTokenConfiguration` is shipped with OM. 
```

### For Local/Testing Deployment

> - You can work with existing configuration as well or if you want you can generate your own private/public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can work with the existing configuration or generate private/public keys.
```

### For Production Deployment

> - It is a MUST! to update the JWT configuration. The following steps can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a **MUST** to update the JWT configuration. The following steps can be used.
```

- Generating Private/Public Keys

```commandline
openssl genrsa -out private_key.pem 2048   
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform DER -in private_key.pem -out private_key.der -nocrypt
openssl rsa -in private_key.pem -pubout -outform DER -out public_key.der 
```

Update below with path of above generated private_key.der and public_key.der.

```yaml
rsapublicKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PUBLIC_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/public_key.der"}
rsaprivateKeyFilePath: ${RSA_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH:-"./conf/private_key.der"}
```

> Jwt Issuer can be your {principalDomain}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jwt Issuer can be your `principalDomain`
```

```yaml
jwtissuer: ${JWT_ISSUER:-"open-metadata.org"}
```

> KeyID is random generated UUID string, use any UUID generator to get a new KeyID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KeyID` is a randomly generated UUID string. Use any UUID generator to get a new `KeyID`.
```
